John Venus is someone who's been a
leader in the vegan movement an advocate
for veganism here on YouTube for many
years we find out today that he's given
up on eating a vegan diet he's given up
on the vegan movement because of
misconceptions he still struggles with
about what's natural necessary and
normal to put it in different words I
would say that he's still really
burdened with misconceptions about what
the ethical implications of evolution
are for how we're living here and now
today it's a deep issue it's a real
issue it may be something you personally
struggled with in the past whoever you
are watching the video
maybe something you're struggling with
now but if not I can really guarantee
there were people in your life whether
they're X vegans non vegans your
grandparents aunts uncles there will be
people who struggle with this issue it's
deep it's difficult to live with the
implications of the simple truth of this
issue and it's not something that I
think we should dismiss in a kind of
shallow catty way as just being an
appeal to nature fallacy a logical
fallacy is an error in logic or
reasoning that makes an argument
unreasonable an appeal to nature fallacy
is used when somebody argues that their
site is correct or good because
something is natural or something is bad
or incorrect because it is unnatural
just because something is natural or
found in nature does not mean it is
justified or good an example of
something natural that is bad is a
hurricane a hurricane is a natural
phenomenon however that does not mean
that they are a good thing discussions
about logical fallacies can sometimes be
useful but very often there are thought
terminating cliche there are cliche
people throw into the conversation that
then stops either party from really
thinking deeply or seriously about what
the topic is at hand
this is not something that I as a parent
as a father uncomfortable with doing I'm
not comfortable of this missing you know
hundreds of thousands of years or even
millions of years of a certain
you know eating pattern and I am very
familiar with the last 5,000 years of
human history I'm not really all that
familiar with the last say 5 million
years I've never been interested in
archeology and physical anthropology on
that scale but just in the last 5,000
years
you can become profoundly acquainted
with how capricious arbitrary and really
tragic the implications of evolution are
for our species to give one very simple
but really moving example iodine
deficiency
it-it-it it causes Gorder of course but
it also causes cretinism in extreme
cases and also it shaves off between 10
to 15 IQ points from people who when in
the first trimester of pregnancy when
they don't get enough iodine from their
mother's bodies today in the year 2020
we think about iodine deficiency assume
that happens in exotic and far-off parts
of the world you may think of Mongolia
you may think of landlocked parts of
Africa you may think of Pakistan all
right people are born mentally [ __ ]
and live their whole lives with a
cognitive deficiency because of iodine
deficiency how is it possible for our
species to be so poorly evolved how is
it possible for it to be natural and
normal for this species of bipedal ape
running around in the forests of North
Africa to be reliant on seaweed to be
reliant on pregnant mothers eating
seaweed to bring pregnancy just to
prevent their children from being born
mentally inadequate in some extreme
cases people are left with cretinism
more commonly they have these 10 to 15
points shaved off their IQ and that is
Eirik
coverable for the rest of their lives
that will be lost about a third of
people in the developing world don't get
enough iodine and you know 50 years from
now 60 years from now those people as
adults will have their capability
impaired because we are not iodized in
their salt today or providing iodine in
other forms we have an evolved
dependency on iodine that's irrational
and arbitrary and unfair and tragic and
with in recorded history it was a
problem on a vast scale within Europe to
white wealthy people in Europe were born
and raised
iodine deficient on a massive scale and
medical scientists kind of even in the
medieval and renaissance era were
struggling with this they didn't
understand why it was why was it in
these landlocked area there were
seemingly whole villages of people born
mentally incapacitated where the level
of intelligence was so much lower than
people living on the coast and nobody
knew why and nobody knew what to do
about it and in fact the earliest time
that this was actually noticed was in
Switzerland inland where there were
these villages of Cretans where there
were these villages where nobody got in
FIO dine and everybody was running
around you know with substantially
[ __ ] and these days in some parts of
the world you do still come across these
same kinds of villages in China a couple
of times inland in Gansu Province and
Ningxia I came across what they call
shag watzmann
which is precisely a village of dunces
and it is eerie to come across a village
where everybody is substantially
[ __ ] because they don't get iodine
how is it possible it's possible because
on a really deep level nature is not
some benevolent god or goddess that is
set down for us an ideal for how we
ought to live our lives nature did not
create this world to be our playground
and did not create us to be a perfect
plaything in that garden if you like
alright Nature has been cruel capricious
arbitrary indifferent in many ways
nature put us into a situation where we
couldn't win that's even just looking at
the last 5,000 years not going back
millions of years of unbelievable
suffering so a guy like John Venus who
has many advantages in life he's a very
good-looking man
he has his whole career basically he has
just gotten by on his looks he doesn't
have that kind of historical knowledge
he doesn't have that depth of
understanding of human history let alone
the way evolution and nature in every
sense of the world has interface with
human history in those five thousand
years a guy like John Venus looks at the
world with a really deep assumption that
whatever is natural must be necessary
and fair and intended for our best
intended for our benefit and that's the
exact opposite of the truth if you could
really just think through and deal with
just this one example of course there
are hundreds of examples of how unfair
it is that human beings should be born
needing iodine and needing their
pregnant mothers to eat enough iodine
during the pregnancy just that we cannot
be mentally handicapped for wholly just
really let that sink in and think about
how unfair that is for a species that
evolved in land Locke North Africa yes
eating you know of animals that resemble
deer 4-legged Carter but we did have a
meat-eating diet so it's over just how
just what a ridiculous struggle we were
put into that way without even thinking
through how unfair it is that you know
there's this parasite called malaria
that all the terrible things we had to
endure over a time scale of millions of
years then you have to accept also that
you're not going to find in that
evolutionary record you're not gonna
find in the examination of nature and
ideal for what we ought to do how we
ought to live our lives
all right so John Venus has given up on
ethical veganism because he resigned
himself to this notion that meat-eating
is something natural and normal and
necessary because of this evolutionary
record because of what Heath what what
he thinks of nature what nature means to
him here and now in our lives I am old
enough at 41 that I met and knew people
who lived through the Nazi period and
those people are not cartoon characters
to me you know they're not like
caricatures of good or evil most of the
people who actually lives through that
period had all kinds of mixed and
contradictory feelings about the Nazis
as they rose and fell and they worked
with propaganda and very imperfect
sources information I had one friend and
his grandparents laughed they did Ulf
Hitler they thought Hitler was a
complete joke kind of right up to the
11th hour right up to when the news was
coming out about how many millions of
people were dying and I can understand
why still today if you actually read
what Hitler wrote it's laughable it's
ridiculous and these grandparents of his
would stay up at night I'd have to
calculate the timezone difference I
believe it was on shortwave radio maybe
I miss remember but on radio one way or
another in Canada they would get
broadcasts of the lectures Hitler was
giving at that time to these big crowds
in German and they would laugh and laugh
it was just so ridiculous
one crazy crackpot conspiracy theory
after another you know blaming the
freemasons and saying this is a
conspiracy and that it was just so
ridiculous that a leader in mainstream
politics was speaking you know in this
way that from their perspective would
not even be respectable if it were some
crackpot at the local pub they laughed
and laughed and then of course you can
imagine after a certain point they had
to look back and
regret their laughter all right a lot of
other people made the wrong call one way
or another the Prime Minister of Canada
it's on the record as an historical fact
that he was a supporter of Adolf Hitler
I know he was the democratically elected
Prime Minister of Canada and then ended
up fighting against Hitler and so on
it's ridiculous there were all kinds of
people who wanted to think the best or
misinterpreted what the signs were and
later had to look back with regret that
they were wrong you know what you don't
hear much about you don't hear from
people who initially supported Hitler
and then found out the terrible truth
and opposed Hitler and then decided
later to go back to supporting Hitler
anyway that you don't hear about that
would take a remarkably evil character
not just to initially support Hitler out
of ignorance but then to learn the
terrible truth oppose it say morally
this is bad and wrong and evil and then
to change your mind and decide that it's
natural normal and necessary or even
good the moral gap between vegans and ax
vegans is much deeper much wider and
much more invidious than the gap between
vegans and people have simply eaten meat
all their lives that's not that big a
deal like the gap between me as a vegan
and someone who's just never thought
about it that's like the gap between
someone who knows how terrible Hitler is
during World War two and someone is just
living in ignorance somebody doesn't
know any of the facts they only vaguely
hear something on the news once in a
while they don't really know what's up
right but when you encounter someone who
has consciously and intentionally made
the moral compromise that John Venus has
made not at if ignorant knowing full
well the ethical and ecological car
Mises you are dealing with someone
Ithaca Lee worse than a Nazi worse than
a neo-nazi someone who became a
committed and ethical opponent of the
Nazis but who later
change their mind
you